NOT LOOKING FOR A REFERRAL - A Fan of Your Work

Hello [TITLE] [LAST_NAME],

My name is Aryan Gupta, and I'm emailing you not to ask for a referral or coffee chat, but rather for career advice. I've read some of your published work, such as your paper, [MOST_RECENT_PAPER], and found it really interesting. I want to help shape my career in such a way that I too can engage in novel research, and wanted your advice on how to go about doing so.

I'm a junior at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign studying Computer Engineering & Statistics, and currently an intern at Scale AI. I have an interest in ML, and have taken courses such as Data Structures, Linear Algebra, and Statistics & Probability. I have competitive programming & math experience, and some side projects I've worked on include using reinforcement learning for SMT solvers, computer vision for UAV control, and agentic LLM systems for OSINT reconaissance. I've also taught myself the basics of ML through textbooks.

However, my ultimate goal is to work on novel AI technology, specifically with LLMs and AGI. However, I'm not sure what the best way is to get the technical experience and skills these types of roles require. With that in mind, I have a few questions:

(1) Are there any specific programs (either extracurricular or academic/graduate), conferences, or other activities you would reccomend? 
(2) Although I know you're probably subject to many strict NDAs, could you tell me a little about your academic/professional career, and 
(3) What you believe brought you to your level, or what you would change looking back?
(4) Are there any important questions I should be asking, that I haven't?
(5) Is there anyone you believe I should talk to that could help me advance my career? As in a professor to do research, coworker for opportunities, etc.

Both your work and career are ones I one day hope to be like, and would appreciate any tips you may have. If you believe it may help, I've attached my resume to help you get a better understanding of what I know/have done (any advice here also appreciated!). Feel free to reach out with any questions you may have.

Best,
Aryan

GitHub: https://github.com/aryan-cs
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/aryan-g